.TH CORBAGRIDSERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
corbaGridServer \- combined CORBA daemon for ContentServer, DataServer and QueryServer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corbaGridServer
.I configFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corbaGridServer
is a single daemon that runs the
.BR ContentServer ,
.B DataServer
and
.B QueryServer
in one process and exposes all three of their service interfaces over
CORBA. It is functionally equivalent to running
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1)
and
.BR corbaQueryServer (1)
side by side, but cheaper and easier to deploy when a single host is
sufficient.
.PP
The combined process supports the same content\(hysource backends as
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
(\fIredis\fR, \fIpostgresql\fR, \fIcorba\fR, \fIhttp\fR), the same value
cache and grid storage as
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
and the same parameter mapping and Lua hook system as
.BR corbaQueryServer (1).
A background thread refreshes parameter mapping files from the live
ContentServer state.
.PP
On startup
.B corbaGridServer
prints (or writes to the configured
.IR iorFile s)
three IORs labelled \fIContentServer\fR, \fIDataServer\fR and
\fIQueryServer\fR. Set
.BR SMARTMET_CS_IOR ,
.B SMARTMET_DS_IOR
and
.B SMARTMET_QS_IOR
respectively so that the
.BR cs_* ,
.BR ds_*
and
.BR qs_*
clients can find them.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Libconfig\(hystyle configuration file. The expected attribute tree is the
union of the
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1)
and
.BR corbaQueryServer (1)
configuration trees.
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B corbaGridServer ;
deployments typically run it from a site\(hylocal supervisord or systemd
unit file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
.BR corbaQueryServer (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR smartmet-ds (1),
.BR smartmet-qs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
