.TH CORBADATASERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
corbaDataServer \- CORBA daemon serving SmartMet GRID file data
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corbaDataServer
.I configFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corbaDataServer
is a daemon that exposes the SmartMet
.B DataServer
service interface over CORBA. The DataServer reads grid files
(GRIB1, GRIB2, NetCDF, QueryData) from a local storage directory and
serves their contents to clients: raw values, point/area
interpolations, vector wind components, isolines, isobands and
ready\(hyrendered map images.
.PP
The DataServer needs continuous access to a
.BR ContentServer .
On startup it registers itself with the configured ContentServer
(\fIcontent-source.ior\fR) and then polls its event log: when new file
information is added to the ContentServer the DataServer reads the new
grid file, registers its detailed content, and announces the file's
availability so that other clients of the same ContentServer know they
can request its data here. When the daemon is stopped the
registrations made for this server are cleaned up automatically.
.PP
Grids are kept in an in\(hymemory or filesystem\(hybacked value cache; the
cache size is configurable. Optional memory mapping
(\fImemoryMapper.enabled\fR) keeps the grid file pages mapped between
requests for faster repeat access.
.PP
On startup
.B corbaDataServer
prints its IOR on standard output, or writes it to the file named by
.B iorFile
in the configuration. Set
.B SMARTMET_DS_IOR
to that IOR so that
.BR ds_* (1)
clients can find the server.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Libconfig\(hystyle configuration file. Required attributes include the
grid\(hyfiles configuration path, server address/port/iorFile,
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.data-server.content-source.ior
(IOR of the ContentServer to attach to),
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.data-server.grid-storage.directory
(local grid file directory), value\(hycache sizing
.RB ( smartmet.library.grid-files.cache.* ),
and processing/debug logging knobs.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT
Initiates a clean shutdown of both the data server and its CORBA
listener.
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B corbaDataServer
itself; deployments typically run it from a site\(hylocal supervisord or
systemd unit file together with
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
and
.BR corbaQueryServer (1),
or use the combined
.BR corbaGridServer (1)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR corbaQueryServer (1),
.BR corbaGridServer (1),
.BR smartmet-ds (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
