.TH CORBAQUERYSERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
corbaQueryServer \- CORBA daemon serving high\(hylevel SmartMet GRID queries
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corbaQueryServer
.I configFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corbaQueryServer
is a daemon that exposes the SmartMet
.B QueryServer
service interface over CORBA. The QueryServer is the high\(hylevel face of
the GRID stack: instead of addressing grid files by id it accepts a
parameter name (\fITemperature\fR, \fIPressure\fR, ...) plus a producer,
geometry, level and time, looks up the matching messages in the
.BR ContentServer ,
asks the
.B DataServer
for values, and applies area / time / level interpolation as
configured.
.PP
The QueryServer needs CORBA clients to a running
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
and
.BR corbaDataServer (1).
Their IORs are read from
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.ior
and
.B smartmet.tools.grid.data-server.ior
in the configuration file.
.PP
The QueryServer uses extensive parameter\(hymapping configuration:
producer alias files, parameter mapping files (FMI / GRIB / Newbase /
NetCDF naming) and Lua hook files. A background thread periodically
generates updated mapping files from whatever parameters the
ContentServer currently knows about.
.PP
On startup
.B corbaQueryServer
prints its IOR on standard output, or writes it to the file named by
.B iorFile
in the configuration. Set
.B SMARTMET_QS_IOR
to that IOR so that
.BR qs_* (1)
clients can find the server.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Libconfig\(hystyle configuration file. Required attributes include the
grid\(hyfiles configuration path, query\(hyserver address/port/iorFile, the
content\(hyserver and data\(hyserver IORs, the producer file, parameter
mapping files, alias files, Lua files and processing/debug logging
knobs.
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B corbaQueryServer
itself; deployments typically run it from a site\(hylocal supervisord or
systemd unit file together with
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
and
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
or use the combined
.BR corbaGridServer (1)
instead.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
.BR corbaGridServer (1),
.BR smartmet-qs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
