.TH CORBACONTENTSERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
corbaContentServer \- CORBA daemon serving SmartMet GRID content information
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B corbaContentServer
.I configFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B corbaContentServer
is a daemon that exposes the SmartMet
.B ContentServer
service interface over CORBA. The ContentServer keeps track of which
producers, generations, files and grid messages are available; it does
not store the grid data itself, only the metadata and indexing.
.PP
The actual content storage backend is configurable in the
configuration file:
.IR redis ,
.IR postgresql ,
.IR memory ,
or
.I corba / http
chaining (forwarding requests to another ContentServer). When
.B cache.enabled
is true a local in\(hymemory cache layer is added on top of the chosen
backend; the cache replays the change\(hyevent log so that downstream
clients always see consistent state.
.PP
On startup
.B corbaContentServer
prints its IOR (International Object Reference) on standard output, or
writes it to the file named by
.B iorFile
in the configuration. The IOR does not change as long as the bound
address and port do not change. Storing it in
.B SMARTMET_CS_IOR
in the operator's shell startup is the recommended way to make
.BR cs_* (1)
clients find the server.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Libconfig\(hystyle configuration file. The expected attribute tree is
documented inline in the source and includes
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.address ,
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.port ,
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.iorFile ,
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.cache.* ,
.BR smartmet.tools.grid.content-server.content-source.type
and the matching
.B redis / postgresql / corba / http / memory
sub\(hytrees.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT
Initiates a clean shutdown of the CORBA server.
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B corbaContentServer
itself; deployments typically run it from a site\(hylocal supervisord or
systemd unit file together with
.BR corbaDataServer (1)
and
.BR corbaQueryServer (1)
or as the combined
.BR corbaGridServer (1).
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
.BR corbaQueryServer (1),
.BR corbaGridServer (1),
.BR httpContentServer (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR radon2smartmet (1),
.BR filesys2smartmet (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
