.TH FILESYS2SMARTMET 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
filesys2smartmet \- populate the SmartMet Content Storage from a filesystem of grid files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B filesys2smartmet
.I configFile
.I loopWaitTime
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Content Storage is a database that records which producers,
generations, files and grids are available to the SmartMet Server.
.B filesys2smartmet
populates and maintains this storage by scanning a tree of grid files
on disk (or in an S3 bucket).
.PP
On every loop iteration
.B filesys2smartmet
walks the configured locations, looks for valid grid files
(GRIB1, GRIB2, NetCDF, QueryData), reads the relevant metadata and
registers it into the Content Storage. Files that have been removed
from disk are deregistered.
.PP
By default the program assumes that file names follow the pattern
.IR PROD_YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS_XXXXX.grib*
where the first underscore\(hydelimited part identifies the producer and
the second is the generation timestamp. For files that cannot be
renamed,
.B filesys2smartmet
can call a Lua function (\fBfilenameFixer\fR) to derive a synthetic
producer/generation name from the original.
.PP
.B filesys2smartmet
is normally run as a long\(hyrunning loop driven by
.IR loopWaitTime .
If
.I loopWaitTime
is zero, the loop executes once and exits.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Path to the
.B filesys2smartmet
JSON\(hystyle configuration file. The file has three main sections:
initialisation of the
.B grid-files
library, a
.B content-source
section listing the locations to scan, and a
.B content-storage
section selecting the Content Storage backend (Redis, CORBA or HTTP).
.TP
.I loopWaitTime
Wait time in seconds between scan loops. Pass
.B 0
to scan once and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The configuration file may itself reference environment variables and
import other files. Typical deployments set
.B SMARTMET_CONF
to point at the SmartMet configuration root used by the imported
sub\(hyconfigurations.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I doc/filesys2smartmet.md
Full prose documentation including configuration examples for both
filesystem and S3 location types and a sample
.B filenameFixer
Lua script.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radon2smartmet (1),
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR smartmet-gu (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
