.TH HTTPCONTENTSERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
httpContentServer \- HTTP front\(hyend for the SmartMet GRID ContentServer
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B httpContentServer
.I configFile
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B httpContentServer
is a daemon that exposes the SmartMet
.B ContentServer
service interface over HTTP, as an alternative to
.BR corbaContentServer (1).
Like the CORBA front\(hyend it is a thin protocol adapter; the actual
content storage backend is configurable
(\fIredis\fR, \fIcorba\fR, \fIhttp\fR or in\(hymemory) and may be cached
locally.
.PP
The daemon is implemented with
.B libmicrohttpd
and accepts both GET and POST requests. The accepted URLs and
parameters mirror the C++ service interface; a simple help page is
served from the file named by
.B helpFile
in the configuration when the request URL is empty.
.PP
.B httpContentServer
is the natural target for the
.B \-http
trailer accepted by most
.BR cs_* (1)
clients.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Libconfig\(hystyle configuration file. Required attributes include the
listening
.B address
and
.BR port ,
.BR helpFile ,
the cache toggle and the same
.B content-source
sub\(hytree as
.BR corbaContentServer (1).
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B httpContentServer ;
deployments typically run it from a site\(hylocal supervisord or systemd
unit file. Pressing
.B Enter
on the daemon's standard input or sending
.B SIGINT
stops the server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR httpServer (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
