.TH HTTPSERVER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
httpServer \- minimal static\(hyfile HTTP server with byte\(hyrange support
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B httpServer
.I port
.I rootDir
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B httpServer
is a small standalone HTTP server that serves files from a single
directory tree, primarily intended for development and for serving
grid files to a remote
.B DataServer
that fetches them by URL.
.PP
The server implements only HTTP GET. It honours the
.B Range
request header (\fIbytes=N-M\fR), which is what the SmartMet
.B grid-files
network data fetcher uses to read selected GRIB messages without
downloading the whole file. Open file handles are pooled and aged out
after one hour of inactivity.
.PP
.B httpServer
is unrelated to
.BR httpContentServer (1):
it serves arbitrary static files, not the ContentServer protocol.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I port
TCP port to listen on.
.TP
.I rootDir
Directory tree to serve. The request URL path is appended to this
directory; no symlink protection or authentication is performed, so
.B httpServer
should not be exposed on untrusted networks.
.SH SYSTEMD
There is no bundled systemd unit for
.B httpServer ;
it is normally run interactively or from a site\(hylocal unit file.
Pressing
.B Enter
on the daemon's standard input stops the server.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR httpContentServer (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
