.TH RADON2CSV 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
radon2csv \- export producer, generation, file and content lists from Radon to CSV
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radon2csv
.I outputDir
.I sourceId
.I producerListFile
.I dbConnectionString
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B radon2csv
reads the FMI internal
.B Radon
PostgreSQL database and writes plain CSV dumps of the producers,
generations, files and grid messages it finds, restricted to the
producers listed in
.IR producerListFile .
The CSV files are written to
.IR outputDir .
.PP
The output is the same format the
.B ContentServer
expects to read with
.BR cs_addFileAndContentListFromFile (1),
which makes
.B radon2csv
useful both as an ad\(hyhoc reporting tool and as a way to bulk\(hyload a
content storage.
.PP
.B radon2csv
is FMI\(hyspecific in that it requires a populated Radon database.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I outputDir
Output directory; the four CSV files are written here.
.TP
.I sourceId
Numeric source identifier to record in the CSV files. Source ids are
used by the Content Storage to separate data coming from different
mirroring tools.
.TP
.I producerListFile
A text file naming the producers to export. The format follows the
producer file used by
.BR radon2smartmet (1).
.TP
.I dbConnectionString
A libpq\(hystyle connection string for the Radon database.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR radon2smartmet (1),
.BR radon2config (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
