.TH RADON2SMARTMET 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
radon2smartmet \- populate the SmartMet Content Storage from the FMI Radon database
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B radon2smartmet
.I configFile
.RI [ loopWaitTime ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Content Storage is a database that records which producers,
generations, files and grids are available to the SmartMet Server. The
SmartMet Server uses this information in order to find the correct data
for incoming requests.
.PP
.B radon2smartmet
is the FMI\(hyspecific application that keeps the Content Storage up to
date by mirroring the contents of the institute's internal
.B Radon
database (a PostgreSQL database). It is intended for use only at sites
that have access to Radon; for everyone else the more generic
.BR filesys2smartmet (1)
applies.
.PP
.B radon2smartmet
is normally executed as a long\(hyrunning loop. Each iteration queries
Radon for changes and applies them to the Content Storage. The
.I loopWaitTime
argument is the wait time between iterations, in seconds. If
.I loopWaitTime
is zero or omitted, the loop is executed only once.
.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.I configFile
Path to the
.B radon2smartmet
JSON\(hystyle configuration file. The configuration declares the Radon
database connection (\fBcontent-source\fR section), the producer list
file selecting which producers to mirror, and the Content Storage
backend (\fBcontent-storage\fR section: Redis, CORBA or HTTP).
.TP
.I loopWaitTime
Optional wait time in seconds between update loops. Default: run once
and exit.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
The configuration file may itself reference environment variables and
import files; see the
.B grid-engine
configuration documentation for the supported syntax. Typical
deployments set
.B SMARTMET_CONF
and
.B CONFIG
in the systemd unit's environment file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/smartmet/radon2smartmet.env
Default environment file used by the
.I radon2smartmet.service
unit, providing
.B CONFIG
to the daemon.
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/system/radon2smartmet.service
Bundled systemd unit that runs
.B radon2smartmet
with a 300\(hysecond loop wait time.
.TP
.I doc/radon2smartmet.md
Full prose documentation of the configuration file format.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR filesys2smartmet (1),
.BR radon2config (1),
.BR radon2csv (1),
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR smartmet-cs (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
