.TH SMARTMET-CS 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
smartmet-cs \- ContentServer command-line clients (cs_*)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cs_<operation>
.I sessionId
.RI [ "operation arguments" ...]
.RI [ "-ior <ior>" "\ |\ "
.BI -http " <url>"
.RI |\ \fB-redis\fR\ < address > " <port>" " <tablePrefix>"
.RI |\ \fB-pg\fR\ < connectionString >]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smartmet-cs
is the umbrella name for the ~116 small command\(hyline binaries shipped by
.B smartmet-tools-grid
whose names begin with
.BR cs_ .
Each binary is a thin wrapper around a single method of the SmartMet
.B ContentServer
service interface, offering a quick way to read or modify the content
information storage from the shell or from scripts.
.PP
The Content Storage is a database that records which producers, generations,
files and grid messages are available to the SmartMet Server. The actual
backend may be Redis, PostgreSQL, an in\(hymemory file or another
.B ContentServer
instance reached over CORBA or HTTP. The
.B cs_*
clients can reach the storage either directly (Redis, PostgreSQL) or through
a running
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
or
.BR httpContentServer (1)
front\(hyend.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B SMARTMET_CS_IOR
CORBA International Object Reference of a running ContentServer. Set once,
typically in
.IR ~/.bashrc ,
to the IOR printed by
.BR corbaContentServer (1)
so that every
.B cs_*
client can find the server without further configuration.
.TP
.B SMARTMET_GRID_CONFIG_FILE
Path to the
.B grid-files
library configuration file. Required by clients that need to identify
parameters, geometries or levels (for example
.BR cs_getProducerParameterList ,
.BR cs_getProducerNameAndGeometryList ).
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
Every
.B cs_*
client takes a numeric
.I sessionId
as its first positional argument. Tools that need to talk to the server
optionally accept a connection trailer at the end of the argument list:
.TP
.BI \-ior " ior"
Use this CORBA IOR instead of
.BR SMARTMET_CS_IOR .
.TP
.BI \-http " url"
Open a HTTP connection to a
.BR httpContentServer (1)
listening at
.IR url .
.TP
.B \-redis " " \fIaddress\fR " " \fIport\fR " " \fItablePrefix\fR
Talk directly to a Redis content storage at
.I address:port
using the given table prefix.
.TP
.BI \-pg " connectionString"
Talk directly to a PostgreSQL content storage. Only the clients that
explicitly accept
.B \-pg
support this trailer.
.PP
If no trailer is given, the client falls back to
.BR SMARTMET_CS_IOR .
The exact argument list of each binary can be inspected by running it
without parameters; every binary prints its own
.I USAGE
banner.
.SH BINARIES
The full set is exposed by
.B Provides:
lines in
.IR smartmet-tools-grid.spec .
The members fall into the following operation groups.
.SS Producer information
.TP
.B cs_addProducerInfo
Register a new producer.
.TP
.B cs_deleteProducerInfoById, cs_deleteProducerInfoByName, cs_deleteProducerInfoListBySourceId
Remove producer records by id, by name or by content source id.
.TP
.B cs_getProducerInfoById, cs_getProducerInfoByName
Fetch a single producer record.
.TP
.B cs_getProducerInfoCount, cs_getProducerInfoList, cs_getProducerInfoListBySourceId, cs_getProducerInfoListByParameter
Enumerate producers, optionally filtered by source or by available parameter.
.TP
.B cs_getProducerNameAndGeometryList, cs_getProducerParameterList, cs_getProducerParameterListByProducerId
Auxiliary listings used by the query stack.
.SS Generation information
.TP
.B cs_addGenerationInfo
Register a new generation (analysis time / forecast set).
.TP
.B cs_deleteGenerationInfoById, cs_deleteGenerationInfoByName, cs_deleteGenerationInfoListByProducerId, cs_deleteGenerationInfoListByProducerName, cs_deleteGenerationInfoListBySourceId
Remove generations by id, by name, by producer or by content source.
.TP
.B cs_getGenerationInfoById, cs_getGenerationInfoByName
Fetch a single generation record.
.TP
.B cs_getGenerationInfoCount, cs_getGenerationInfoList, cs_getGenerationInfoListByGeometryId, cs_getGenerationInfoListByProducerId, cs_getGenerationInfoListByProducerName, cs_getGenerationInfoListBySourceId
Enumerate generations.
.TP
.B cs_getLastGenerationInfoByProducerIdAndStatus, cs_getLastGenerationInfoByProducerNameAndStatus, cs_getGenerationIdGeometryIdAndForecastTimeList
Lookups used to find the newest published generation.
.TP
.B cs_setGenerationInfoStatusById, cs_setGenerationInfoStatusByName
Change the publication status of a generation.
.SS Geometry information
.TP
.B cs_deleteGeometryInfoById, cs_deleteGeometryInfoListByGenerationId, cs_deleteGeometryInfoListByProducerId, cs_deleteGeometryInfoListBySourceId
Remove geometry records.
.TP
.B cs_getGeometryInfoById, cs_getGeometryInfoList, cs_getGeometryInfoListByGenerationId, cs_getGeometryInfoListByProducerId, cs_getGeometryInfoListBySourceId
Fetch or enumerate geometry records.
.TP
.B cs_setGeometryInfoStatusById
Change the status flag of a geometry.
.SS File information
.TP
.B cs_addFileInfo, cs_addFileInfoListFromFile, cs_addFileInfoWithContentList, cs_addFileAndContentListFromFile
Register grid files (optionally together with the messages they contain).
.TP
.B cs_deleteFileInfoById, cs_deleteFileInfoByName, cs_deleteFileInfoListByFileIdList, cs_deleteFileInfoListByGenerationId, cs_deleteFileInfoListByGenerationIdAndForecastTime, cs_deleteFileInfoListByGenerationName, cs_deleteFileInfoListByProducerId, cs_deleteFileInfoListByProducerName, cs_deleteFileInfoListBySourceId
Remove file records by various keys.
.TP
.B cs_getFileInfoById, cs_getFileInfoByName
Fetch a single file record.
.TP
.B cs_getFileInfoCount, cs_getFileInfoCountByGenerationId, cs_getFileInfoCountByProducerId, cs_getFileInfoCountBySourceId, cs_getFileInfoCountsByGenerations, cs_getFileInfoCountsByProducers, cs_getFileInfoList, cs_getFileInfoListByFileIdList, cs_getFileInfoListByGenerationId, cs_getFileInfoListByGenerationName, cs_getFileInfoListByProducerId, cs_getFileInfoListByProducerName, cs_getFileInfoListBySourceId
Enumerate files or count them by grouping key.
.SS Content (grid message) information
.TP
.B cs_addContentInfo
Register a single grid message.
.TP
.B cs_deleteContentInfo, cs_deleteContentListByFileId, cs_deleteContentListByFileName, cs_deleteContentListByGenerationId, cs_deleteContentListByGenerationName, cs_deleteContentListByProducerId, cs_deleteContentListByProducerName, cs_deleteContentListBySourceId
Remove grid messages by file, generation, producer or source.
.TP
.B cs_getContentInfo, cs_getContentCount
Fetch a single message record or the global count.
.TP
.B cs_getContentList, cs_getContentListByFileId, cs_getContentListByFileIdList, cs_getContentListByFileName, cs_getContentListByGenerationId, cs_getContentListByGenerationIdAndTimeRange, cs_getContentListByGenerationName, cs_getContentListByParameter, cs_getContentListByParameterAndGenerationId, cs_getContentListByParameterAndProducerId, cs_getContentListByParameterGenerationIdAndForecastTime, cs_getContentListByProducerId, cs_getContentListByProducerName, cs_getContentListBySourceId, cs_getContentListOfInvalidIntegrity
Enumerate messages with various filters.
.TP
.B cs_getContentGeometryIdListByGenerationId, cs_getContentLevelListByGenerationGeometryAndLevelId, cs_getContentParamKeyListByGenerationAndGeometryId, cs_getContentParamKeyListByGenerationGeometryAndLevelId, cs_getContentParamKeyListByGenerationId, cs_getContentParamListByGenerationId, cs_getContentTimeListByGenerationAndGeometryId, cs_getContentTimeListByGenerationGeometryAndLevelId, cs_getContentTimeListByGenerationId, cs_getContentTimeListByProducerId, cs_getLevelInfoList, cs_getParameterPreloadList
Aggregated listings used by the query stack.
.SS Events
.TP
.B cs_getEventInfoCount, cs_getEventInfoList, cs_getLastEventInfo
Inspect the change\(hyevent log used by DataServer/QueryServer to follow updates.
.SS Maintenance
.TP
.B cs_clear
Wipe the storage.
.TP
.B cs_reload
Force a reload of in\(hymemory caches.
.TP
.B cs_saveData
Dump the in\(hymemory storage to a directory.
.TP
.B cs_getCsvFiles
Export selected listings as CSV.
.TP
.B cs_getHashByProducerId
Return the storage hash for a given producer (used for cache validation).
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/cs_*
The installed client binaries.
.TP
.I doc/grid-support.md
Higher\(hylevel description of the GRID stack and how clients fit in.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smartmet-ds (1),
.BR smartmet-qs (1),
.BR smartmet-gu (1),
.BR corbaContentServer (1),
.BR httpContentServer (1),
.BR radon2smartmet (1),
.BR filesys2smartmet (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
