.TH SMARTMET-GU 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
smartmet-gu \- GRID utility helpers (gu_*)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B gu_<utility>
.RI [ "utility arguments" ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smartmet-gu
is the umbrella name for the 14 standalone helper binaries shipped by
.B smartmet-tools-grid
whose names begin with
.BR gu_ .
Unlike the
.BR cs_* ,
.BR ds_*
and
.BR qs_*
families, these utilities do not talk to a running server. They operate
on local data: grid geometry definitions, polygon and circle geometry,
PNG files, configuration files and Lua scripts.
.PP
The utilities are useful when developing producer or parameter
configuration, when testing geometry definitions, or when inspecting
data offline outside the SmartMet Server.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B SMARTMET_GRID_CONFIG_FILE
Path to the
.B grid-files
library configuration file. Required by the geometry helpers
.RB ( gu_getGridGeometryIdListByLatLon ,
.BR gu_getGridLatLonCoordinatesByGeometryId )
to load the projection and geometry table.
.SH BINARIES
.SS Geometry lookup
.TP
.BI gu_getGridGeometryIdListByLatLon " latitude longitude"
Print all geometry ids whose grid contains the given lat/lon point.
.TP
.BI gu_getGridLatLonCoordinatesByGeometryId " geometryId"
Print the latitude/longitude of every grid point of the given
geometry.
.TP
.BI gu_getLatLonDistance " lat1 lon1 lat2 lon2"
Print the great\(hycircle distance between two lat/lon points.
.SS Polygon and circle geometry
.TP
.B gu_getEnlargedPolygon
Enlarge an arbitrary polygon by a constant
.I xAddition
and
.I yAddition
(useful for buffering bounding regions).
.TP
.B gu_getGridPointsInsideCircle
Print the grid points falling inside a circle of given centre and
radius.
.TP
.B gu_getGridPointsInsidePolygon
Print the grid points falling inside a polygon defined by a list of
.IR x , y
vertices.
.TP
.B gu_getGridPointsInsidePolygonPath
As
.B gu_getGridPointsInsidePolygon ,
but accepts a multi\(hypolygon path (vertices separated by
.RB \(lq / \(rq).
.SS PNG image manipulation
.TP
.B gu_mergePngFiles
Composite an ordered list of PNG layers into a single PNG, with a
configurable background colour for transparent pixels.
.TP
.B gu_mergePngFilesSeq
Composite a sequence of PNG files (the count is given explicitly) into
a single PNG. Used together with
.BR ds_getGridIsobandImage* / ds_getGridIsolineImage*
output.
.SS Lua scripting
.TP
.B gu_executeLuaFunction
Run a function from a Lua file with parameters passed on the command
line. Used to validate Lua filename\(hyfixers and parameter mappers used
by
.BR filesys2smartmet (1)
and the QueryServer.
.TP
.B gu_getLuaFunctions
List the function names registered in a Lua file's
.B getFunctionNames
hook.
.SS Configuration
.TP
.B gu_replaceConfigurationAttributes
Read a configuration file, perform attribute substitution against an
input file and write the result. Used to expand
.B $(VAR)
references and includes in libconfig\(hystyle GRID configuration.
.TP
.B gu_showConfigurationAttributes
Print the attribute tree of a configuration file. With
.B \-val
also print the resolved values.
.SS Newbase / FMI parameter conversion
.TP
.B gu_newbase2fmi
Generate FMI parameter mappings from newbase parameter definitions
under a
.B grid-config-dir
tree. With
.B \-rev
generates the reverse mapping.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR smartmet-ds (1),
.BR smartmet-qs (1),
.BR filesys2smartmet (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
