.TH SMARTMET-QS 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
smartmet-qs \- QueryServer command-line clients (qs_*)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B qs_<operation>
.I sessionId
.RI [ "operation arguments" ...]
.RI [ -ior " <ior>" ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smartmet-qs
is the umbrella name for the six command\(hyline binaries shipped by
.B smartmet-tools-grid
whose names begin with
.BR qs_ .
Each binary is a thin wrapper around a single method of the SmartMet
.B QueryServer
service interface.
.PP
The QueryServer is the high\(hylevel face of the GRID stack: instead of
addressing a particular grid file and message index it accepts a
.I parameter
name (e.g.\& Temperature, Pressure) and a producer or geometry, looks up
the matching grid messages from the
.BR ContentServer ,
asks the
.B DataServer
for values, applies area / time / level interpolation as configured, and
returns the result. The QueryServer itself is run by
.BR corbaQueryServer (1)
or as part of
.BR corbaGridServer (1).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B SMARTMET_QS_IOR
CORBA International Object Reference of a running QueryServer. Set it once
to the IOR printed by
.BR corbaQueryServer (1).
The clients fall back to a
.B \-ior
trailer if the variable is not set.
.TP
.B SMARTMET_GRID_CONFIG_FILE
Path to the
.B grid-files
library configuration file. Required by
.B qs_getParameterIsobands ,
.B qs_getParameterIsolines
and
.B qs_getParameterValues
to identify parameter names and projections.
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
Every
.B qs_*
client takes a numeric
.I sessionId
as its first positional argument. The QueryServer is reached over CORBA
and the IOR is taken from
.B SMARTMET_QS_IOR
unless overridden:
.TP
.BI \-ior " ior"
Use this CORBA IOR instead of
.BR SMARTMET_QS_IOR .
.PP
The remaining arguments depend on the call. The exact argument list of
each binary is printed when it is run without parameters.
.SH BINARIES
.TP
.B qs_getProducerList
List the producer names known to the QueryServer.
.TP
.B qs_getParameterValueByPointAndTime
Look up a single
.I parameter
value at a given
.IR x , y
location and a single
.IR time .
.TP
.B qs_getParameterValuesByPointAndTimeList
Look up a parameter at a single point but a comma\(hyseparated list of
times, returning a time series.
.TP
.B qs_getParameterValues
General time\(hyseries query: parameter, start time, end time and an
arbitrary list of attribute=value pairs (producer, geometryId,
levelId, level, interpolation methods, ...). Output is written as
CSV.
.TP
.B qs_getParameterIsolines
Generate isoline (contour line) data for a parameter on a given
geometry, between a start time and a number of time steps; one PNG per
time step is produced.
.TP
.B qs_getParameterIsobands
Generate isoband (filled contour) data analogous to
.B qs_getParameterIsolines .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/qs_*
The installed client binaries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR smartmet-ds (1),
.BR smartmet-gu (1),
.BR corbaQueryServer (1),
.BR corbaGridServer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
