.TH SMARTMET-DS 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-tools-grid" "SmartMet GRID Tools"
.SH NAME
smartmet-ds \- DataServer command-line clients (ds_*)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ds_<operation>
.I sessionId
.RI [ "operation arguments" ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B smartmet-ds
is the umbrella name for the 31 small command\(hyline binaries shipped by
.B smartmet-tools-grid
whose names begin with
.BR ds_ .
Each binary is a thin wrapper around a single method of the SmartMet
.B DataServer
service interface.
.PP
The DataServer keeps a working set of grid files (GRIB, NetCDF, QueryData)
locally and serves their contents to clients on request: raw values,
interpolated values at points, polygons or rectangles, vector wind
components, isolines, isobands and ready\(hyrendered map images. The DataServer
itself is run by
.BR corbaDataServer (1)
or as part of
.BR corbaGridServer (1).
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
.B SMARTMET_DS_IOR
CORBA International Object Reference of a running DataServer. The
.B ds_*
clients require this variable; they print
.RI \(lq SMARTMET_DS_IOR " not defined!"\(rq
and exit if it is missing. Set it once to the IOR printed by
.BR corbaDataServer (1).
.TP
.B SMARTMET_GRID_CONFIG_FILE
Path to the
.B grid-files
library configuration file. Required by the imaging clients
.RB ( ds_getGridImage* ,
.BR ds_getGridIsobandImage* ,
.BR ds_getGridIsolineImage* )
that need to identify projections and parameters.
.SH COMMON ARGUMENTS
Every
.B ds_*
client takes a numeric
.I sessionId
as its first positional argument. The DataServer is always reached over
CORBA and the IOR is taken from
.BR SMARTMET_DS_IOR ;
unlike the
.BR cs_*
family, no
.BR \-http ,
.B \-redis
or
.B \-ior
trailer is accepted.
.PP
Most clients additionally take a
.I fileId
and a
.I messageIndex
identifying the grid message to read. Imaging and interpolation clients
take further arguments such as
.IR coordinateType ,
grid bounds, an interpolation method or a list of contour values; the
exact argument list is printed by every binary when run without
parameters.
.SH BINARIES
.SS Plain attributes and metadata
.TP
.B ds_getGridFileCount
Number of grid files currently registered to this DataServer.
.TP
.B ds_getGridAttributeList
Per\(hymessage attribute list (parameter id, level, geometry, etc.).
.TP
.B ds_getGridCoordinates
Latitude/longitude coordinates of every grid point of a message.
.SS Raw and interpolated values
.TP
.B ds_getGridData
Read all values of a single message and write them as CSV.
.TP
.B ds_getGridValueByPoint, ds_getGridValueByTimeAndPoint, ds_getGridValueByLevelAndPoint, ds_getGridValueByTimeLevelAndPoint
Single\(hypoint values, optionally with time and/or level interpolation.
.TP
.B ds_getGridValueList, ds_getGridValueListByCircle, ds_getGridValueListByPolygon, ds_getGridValueListByRectangle, ds_getGridValueListByTimeAndCircle, ds_getGridValueListByTimeAndPolygon
Values of all grid points falling inside a geometric region.
.TP
.B ds_getGridValueVector, ds_getGridValueVectorByPoint, ds_getGridValueVectorByRectangle, ds_getGridValueVectorByTime
Vector\(hyvalued reads (e.g.\& wind u/v components or full grids in vector form).
.SS Map and image rendering
.TP
.B ds_getGridMap, ds_getGridImage, ds_getGridImageByArea
Render a single message to an image (JPEG/PNG).
.TP
.B ds_getGridIsolineImage, ds_getGridIsolineImageByGeometry, ds_getGridIsolineImageByTime, ds_getGridIsolineImageByTimeAndGeometry, ds_getGridIsolineMap
Render isoline (contour\(hyline) PNGs at given contour values, with optional
projection and time interpolation.
.TP
.B ds_getGridIsobandImage, ds_getGridIsobandImageByGeometry, ds_getGridIsobandImageByTime, ds_getGridIsobandImageByTimeAndGeometry, ds_getGridIsobandMap
Render isoband (filled contour) PNGs at given contour values.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /usr/bin/ds_*
The installed client binaries.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR smartmet-cs (1),
.BR smartmet-qs (1),
.BR smartmet-gu (1),
.BR corbaDataServer (1),
.BR corbaGridServer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-tools-grid/issues>.
